# Restart from a Previous Run

This page explains how to **restart** a [Job]({{ reference_url }}/jobs/overview/) from the **results of a previous calculation**.


## 1. Understand restart file operations

When a job is added as a parent, some directories and files are copied or linked to the new [job working directory]({{ cli_url }}/jobs-cli/batch-scripts/directories.md#working-directory). For example, with the [Quantum ESPRESSO]({{ reference_url }}/software-directory/modeling/quantum-espresso/overview/) engine, a link to the parent working directory is created to restart from the last checkpoint. With [VASP]({{ reference_url }}/software-directory/modeling/vasp/overview/), the output CONTCAR file generated by the parent job is copied as an input POSCAR structure file to restart from the last ionic step.


## 2. Example of restart application

This tutorial demonstrates the "restart" functionality by feeding the wavefunction data obtained in a self-consistent field (SCF) [Total Energy]({{ reference_url }}/properties-directory/scalar/total-energy/) computation to the subsequent non-self consistent (NSCF) step in an electronic band structure calculation, which is described in a [separate tutorial](../dft/electronic/band-structure.md).

Restarting and linking the two Jobs in this way allows the band structure to be computed without recalculating the charge density and wavefunctions through an SCF calculation a second time, reducing computational time. The results of such an SCF Job can be re-utilized as a starting point for multiple other calculations that require such preliminary results.


## 3. Select the parent job

Within [Job Designer]({{ interface_url }}/jobs-designer/overview/), job restarting is accomplished via the [Select Parent Option]({{ interface_url }}/jobs-designer/actions-header-menu/select-parent/) under the main [header menu]({{ interface_url }}/jobs-designer/header-menu/).

First, create a new [Job]({{ reference_url }}/jobs/overview/) with the NSCF component [unit]({{ reference_url }}/workflows/components/units/) of a band structure calculation present on its own in the main [workflow]({{ reference_url }}/workflows/overview/). Follow the same instructions as in the [original tutorial](../dft/electronic/band-structure.md#create-job) to [select and insert]({{ interface_url }}/jobs-designer/actions-header-menu/select-workflow/) such a Workflow.

Then, find the previously-run SCF job via the [Select Parent option]({{ interface_url }}/jobs-designer/actions-header-menu/select-parent/) and select that job to prepend its results as a restart precursor to the new NSCF job.


## 4. Submit the job

The same instructions for submitting and executing the restart Job as in the main band structure [tutorial](../dft/electronic/band-structure.md#submit-job) can be followed.


## 5. Video walkthrough

The animation below demonstrates the steps involved in restarting an NSCF electronic band structure computation, performed on silicon, based upon the preliminary results of a previously-run SCF calculation. The example uses [Quantum ESPRESSO]({{ reference_url }}/software-directory/modeling/quantum-espresso/overview/), however the same procedure is generally applicable.

<div class="video-wrapper">
<iframe class="gifffer" width="100%" height="100%" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZGX1PpSTIXU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
